hello scientifically accurate nail art
lovers and welcome back to another
episode of nailing science with me
astrophysicist dr. at Becca's malloced
me molecular biologist dr. McKay
Livingston banks and this week's special
guest is biomedical engineer if you had
a heading of welcome to this show thank
you you have to be here so first I'm
getting my nails done so yeah first time
first time ever anyway you've done them
or anybody's on them for you anyone
anyone okay yes yeah so we should say
that ahead of time we have already
painted Johannes nails already so
Michaela would you like to run through
your color choice so yes I have gone
with this wonderful one from prism
polish which is called drogon trocar
true very Game of Thrones yes I think
it's like a dragon II it's appropriate
because today is like Gamma Thursday
when was Elena so and I went with this
beautiful red which is an OPI red called
Big Apple reg which is very very nice
and I think we both went far close
because we were trying to emulate blood
would you ought it would you like to
tell us a little bit about your research
while this suppose coat dries and then
everyone can understand okay so what I
work on our flu vaccines okay so
normally we get a flu shot they kind of
put a needle into your arm and it goes
into the muscle and it hurts so what I'm
trying to do is I'm trying to get a
build a vaccine that can actually just
go into your skin so it won't hurt at
all but Shelley so the needle at the
minute does go into this game but this
is like an effective vaccine that they
actually shot into yeah it goes through
your skin into your muscles right okay
I'm trying to go to a system where you
literally put something on your skin you
treat it for a while and then that's it
well like a lotion or like Star Trek
hypo spray like a nicotine yes
well currently what it is it's a liquid
so you put like a little cup on your
skin and then you put a liquid which has
to vexy
in it on it and he exposed that to
ultrasound so the same thing you used to
look at babies and that will help it go
into the top layer of your skin okay
cool and that will be it and it won't
hurt and when they injected it into your
you're saying it goes into the muscle
like I hope they found a vein and they
injected it straight to your like
bloodstream but it's that so that's case
that's not the case so what actually
happens is when you get inject it goes
into your muscle and as blood goes
through your body it kind of leaves the
vein goes into your muscle and gives
oxygen and everything every cell needs
yeah and when that blood goes into like
the actual tissue it also brings along
immune cells and those immune cells kind
of look around and when you get
vaccinated they find that things have
been injected they go oh this is weird
and then when they go back to the
bloodstream they bring that along yeah
and they've got some immune organs which
are like yeah lymph nodes under your
armpits your thighs and it goes there
and there are lots of mewn cells there
and once it reaches that it shows it off
and like I found this and then the lymph
node cells will go oh that's bad and
then they will mount an immune response
so what's the ultrasound doing in all of
this like I just want to look at the
you're not wanting to look at what's
under this game which is usually what
all true sounds yes for right so
ultrasounds like sound waves you sort of
have a pressure so if you you know if
you have speakers you can feel like the
pressure coming off the base yeah I
spend a lot of time standing in front in
a much smaller scale to actually push
things through the skin and my lab
specializes in bubbles bubbles yes
bubbles so bubbles are really cool
because if you put them in a sound field
they start oscillating so they start
going yeah become small and big yeah and
you can actually use that to kind of
make micro pores in your skin micro
pores yes so sort of little tunnels
through that hard layer
the actual vaccine can go through that
hard layer to the skin that's underneath
it so the back in the bubble no it's
with the bubbles so the bubbles make the
little holes and then the vaccine can
kind of go with the flow okay so bubbles
first vaccine second yeah right okay so
bubbles are like okay so I'm gonna try
out a thing that I've seen done and I've
not really done myself which is where
you use acrylic paint or over the nail
varnish a-and you paint it on any new
sort of take it off with water again but
it leaves like a ring like water city
but it's kind of like if you add a bit
of color to it it looks like a bubble
okay but you do it on like a matte
background so that then you can put like
clear stuff on the top and it kind of
stands out from the background yeah
that's cool we could work together the
skin side and I could do like the the
bubbles and the ultrasound it makes it
less completely under the skin you be
like the top of the skin the skin is
here yeah yeah all right
normally when you get a shot you get
injected with like a piece of the virus
mm-hmm but that's really hard to make so
actually it's like a dead virus yeah so
like there with smallpox and stuff yeah
bad smallpox yes you give people
smallpox yeah yeah okay but they
actually have to make that with chicken
Thanks wait sorry what chicken eggs
chicken egg an egg uh-huh and then they
put the virus in there then in the in
replicates in the egg okay in the yolk
in yeah the yolk okay so and uses the
nutrients in the egg white okay not that
is there a like a chicken embryo yes
there's actually an embryo okay so a
chicken embryo and what they don't do is
take our that up for a few days and then
they have to take all the fires they
have to break all the eggs take the
virus out clean that up and that takes
months so for instance I work on flu
okay
you get flew around like
september/october they start something
you should get their shots yeah yeah so
the World Health Organization they tell
you in January or February they start
telling the flu manufacturer is a few
vaccine manufacturers what they need to
produce and that's when they start but
how do they know that far ahead of time
like what's gonna be like they kind of
look what's in the air what they can see
low levels off and then they assume
that's gonna taste bad but you know how
they something say like trivalent flu
shots okay so normally when you get a
flu shot they kind of hedge their bets
and it put three different types in okay
and then hope that one of them will be
the one that becomes right everybody get
so that hold that's going around and
everybody's dog yeah right okay yeah
because it take so long as something
pops up though we didn't expect like the
swine flu in 2000 so they did manage to
make a vaccine for it but it came after
like most people had already gotten sick
right so it just showed up too late so
what does it took them like six months
to make the vaccine I guess yeah so it
came like in Jan right okay so that was
a bit like outdated what you can do is
give like DNA to yourselves and they
will make the protein that is specific
to a type of flu themselves and then
your immune cells will find that protein
that your cells made themselves and be
like oh this is bad
I make immune response but we're very
good at changing DNA and making a lot of
DNA very quickly so you could speed up
the production so this isn't just like
analyzing DNA no this is on making yeah
eight million on whatever connections it
is in DNA but it would be a lot shorter
but if you have a virus it looks like a
little box okay and on the outside of
the box they're sort of flags that
change every season okay and that's why
your immune system keeps thinking it's
something new where the inside is
completely the same yeah that's why we
keep calling it free right yeah the same
base
yeah box yeah okay cool but the Flies
keep changing so deer immune system has
to learn every year again oh this is the
Lag right so if we just give your body
the flags you can't get ill but your
body does learn to recognize the flag
right okay so I give to DNA for the flag
and that goes into your skin and some of
your skin cells will make the actual
flag give that to your immune system
okay your immune system will then take
to your lymph nodes but then how does
that then because you haven't given
anything to do with the box you've just
given it the flags then you're like
immune system know that that flag goes
with like the flea box where I was in
like the measles box yes so for your
immune system that doesn't matter as
soon as it sees the flag you'll be like
oh this is something bad I'm gonna take
this down yeah cause like your immune
system cells they don't have eyes they
don't look at the whole thing the way
they detect it is just on the basis of
like one particular different thing and
they've said this protein is different
from the proteins that should be in my
in me yes yeah so if it goes in through
the skin and then the immune cells in
your skin make the flags we actually
don't know which cells make the flag
okay it could be your immune cells it
could be your skin cells so that's part
of what I'm doing working on that trying
to figure out how it works so now I need
to do bubbles what we're trying to push
their way through the skin yeah polls
pore expanding bubbles
this is a really off-topic thing but the
whole pause expanding because of bubbles
think would that ever be used for like
in facials or anything to like sort of
clear out pores sound in bubbles so the
bubbles not yet but the ultrasound is
like used to clean your skin oh yeah you
can't get ultrasound facials yeah so
people do do that okay so it's a similar
process yeah so the bubbles I'm using
we're actually invented by my lab it's a
spin-out company okay
but they have all kinds of uses they
even use it like in Casa therapy so if
they do any cancer therapies they put
the bubbles in your bloodstream and then
they shot put ultrasound where the tumor
is okay and then they start pushing
their way into the tumor so drugs can go
further into your tumor oh okay does
that help avoid like your hair fall you
know for example but
cells that orange cancer are getting
killed by the chemotherapy yeah that's
actually targeted drug delivery yeah but
then they have to actually put the drug
inside the bubbles so what I'm not
trying to do because I'm a trained
biologist I'm trying to figure out why
it worked it's no looking that's going
to immune cells I was going to skin
cells right which are the cells that
you're going on a bit of a treasure hunt
then yeah I've got a very expensive yes
make a really short strand of DNA
yes which encodes the flag yeah on the
outside of the virus yes and you put
that into the skin yes and then is it
like is it adapted into your DNA look is
it replicated by yourselves into the
know if you're in a Cell there are a few
parts you cut the nucleus which is like
the core which has all your DNA in it
and my DNA kind of rocks up uses the
same DNA for the flag kind of comes in
there it gets turned into like this
messenger RNA so that's sort of the
intermediate until in Samarra RNA so
you've got DNA which is the double
stranded helix yeah and you can so if
you know the left side you always know
the right side mm-hmm because they
always bind in a pair okay and what RNA
doesn't make like a local copy of it do
they Inco encodes proteins and then a
bit of it is copied into mRNA and that's
the message and in the message goes out
of the nucleus into the cytoplasm and
gets made into a protein and and it's
the protein that does stuff got the DNA
that goes into your cell into nucleus
that gets that piece gets copied into
like a message that message then leaves
the nucleus and goes into sort of the
machinery that makes protein and that
machine that makes the little flags
yeah those flags get sort of exposed on
the outside of the cell those guys kind
of get put like oh I'm suddenly making
these flags why am i doing this yeah
then immune cells go on oh you're making
slice that's kind of bad yeah kind of
pick that up that goes to the lymph
nodes and they go like oh this is not
ours yeah then they start marking an
immune response so that okay you've got
name your response you've got antibodies
you might have heard of so those are
sort of things that stick on the outside
and you've got other cells that kind of
eat everything that's covered in
antibodies this is covered down towards
I'm gonna eat this up break it down and
get rid of it
I got bite away system right but these
flags don't make you ill though nope but
just flags they're not nothing of the
bad stuff inside the box right so it's
not like you're giving it like a dead
thing like they do with normal vaccine
yeah is that you're just giving it the
flag that's gonna be so there's nothing
in there that could possibly make you
ill you're literally just making little
flags right okay so anybody that is
against vaccines for stupid reasons
thinking that you're injecting kids with
like viruses even though that dead like
huh should have no issue with this
because literally there's nothing
nothing who's not actual virus going
into your system no that's all the
system I have now I think they're
literally three things in there I think
it's a salt solution bubbles and the DNA
and that's every really cool if you
would have a little label on it
bubbles DNA yeah yeah how far away from
this is like is it on so far animal
trials have we done human trials or is
it complete theory in a minute I'm sort
of person who worked on this before me
who made like the ultrasound setup
mm-hmm
she got it as far as that she put it on
a mouse okay and the mouse had made
antibody so he didn't get the flu they
didn't give him flu they just saw if he
made antibodies after being exposed to
the vaccine and it did it was actually
really cool because remember how I said
that your skin has much more immune
cells than like your muscle right now
you get right vaccinated so she was able
to show that even though she only gave
like
one thousands of the amount of DNA
compared to if you would give it a shot
she actually only got twenty fold less
immune response compared to putting it
directly to a muscle okay so that should
scale though shouldn't it
yep so the theory I'm working with on my
doctorate my PhD thesis is that if I
just improve it a little bit like make
it slightly better in yourself express
it a bit better mm-hmm get the
parameters slightly so how I deliver the
ultrasound or to set up a bit better who
can already be at the point where I
would fully immunized that's really cool
so I guess that would still be a mouse
trial is gonna be part of your PhD do
you think that or it'll just be at the
end but right now I'm just trying you
have to figure out why it works so I
just take rice and expose that to
ultrasound and then look that's cool
did it go to immune cells so it's just
shaved my skin and we suppose that and
then you look like did it go to the
immune cells does it go to normal skin
cells and that's kind of what I'm doing
now you figure out why it works so she
was it showed that it works but we don't
know why and if I know too what kind of
cells it goes I can make it completely
friendly to that cells yeah so what I'm
trying to do now is convince it to make
as many flags as possible when there's
nothing else bad yet because if you're
if a virus tells you to make a lot of
something that'd be pretty bad yeah this
is everything yeah it's currently
vaccinated yeah could be done in this
method yeah and it's big advantage
because we can make it a lot faster and
normally you have to get vaccinated the
facts things have to be cold yeah which
is really hard if we're going to like
Africa yeah a truc ensure it's much
cheaper as well to do it this way yes
also because you don't have to clean it
up from an egg my first question when
you mention chicken eggs and stuff like
does this mean that like technically
vegans should not ever say like would
vegans have an issue with the way that
vaccines are produced they could so
there's a move away from it because some
people who have an egg allergy they
can't get vaccinations there's like half
percent of the people
allergy and especially kids so they have
to wait for the egg allergy to either
become less yeah before they can get
their shots just be ready with a nephew
but this is the point of herd immunity
right yeah is that those people who
can't get vaccines are protected by
those who do yeah but that's why
everyone who can should get vaccinated
yeah to protect everybody oh yeah so are
you not cool with needles yourself is
that kind of what treaters yeah
I don't like getting my shots I've got
all of them but yeah yeah responsible
thing today yeah so I do feel like I
want to if have to choose between ten
minutes of being a bit like I'm not very
comfortable or getting the measles yeah
I'll choose that every time yeah I think
it's a really hopeful platform and it's
pain-free you can adapt it you can
produce it much quicker if we actually
get an epidemic of some sort like Ebola
cuz that came up so quickly
yeah you just didn't have time to make a
vaccine but if it's DNA it's so much
quicker how quick though I used to be in
the lab making different types of DNA I
like in a week okay and then I just
transport and everything I guess
well then scale it up so that takes
about two weeks okay and compare that to
the six months yeah yeah that's a huge
advantage but there's like the chemical
synthesis way of making yeah DNA and
then there is the sticking a bit of DNA
into like a bacteria and then growing up
a ton of bacteria but are you talking
about the chemicals chemical this yeah
so there's a company that specializes
and then but presumably they can give
you that dry like a little pellet in the
bottom of a tube so like it's really
stable a powder yeah it's super stable
so you can send it in the post dead
virus that I sending in the post and
they do this all already don't they
because I mean ice to get my little
short bits of DNA delivered to the lab
by the post
you go online on what is it I think I
use so I DT but yeah go there a week
later full of DNA yes that'd be really
annoying if you forgot what you did and
you open it like what did I order again
a fellow I presume that's the life of
above you like the option to give it a
name that you can remember so I think
rather than a string of 80 G's yes so
you have to like have this amazing
bookkeeping system right spreadsheet
spreadsheet love a spreadsheet like
evolution came up with the most
incredible way of storing information I
had someone was trying to explain to me
someone my lab works on cancer and he
was trying to explain to me how he gets
lymph nodes and he said they catch the
light slightly differently
and that was the only description he had
for me for finding them so I did Cole
[Music]
yeah you know what you put a pupil in
the middle of it that becomes very
versatile they're like but anyway DNA is
super cool yes and you can get to in the
post I think because what we linked it
to the whole black hole because what
they were telling me in the lab because
last week we had a lab meeting and we
were all talking about this and a
professor came it says what is the
correlation or what's the same in
bubbles and in that image of the black
hole and she was saying the light you
see is compressed gas if you compress it
you get the light yeah and bubbles if
you put them in a sound field and you
oscillate them they actually start
glowing that's really cool you should
totally Google like the SONA it's called
sonoluminescence like sono and sound and
luminescence they get these amazing
clips of people literally someone showed
me that one of the first experiments
like in a beer glass yeah when you
talked about bubbles expanding
Contracting before because of the
ultrasound it's the same process that
happens have you ever be attached
somebody so if they're holding a bottle
and beer and you take your mahalia and
you like smack killers on top of bears
yes you basically cause that must have
big sort of like okay no explosion of
bubbles yeah right and that's because
when you tap your bottle on you send
this all shockwaves through the liquid
in the bottle that bounces off bottom
and then bounces off the top of the
liquid as well and it sets up this
standing wave they're constantly just
like pings back up north in the liquid
and as it goes past it yeah and then
they break off into like these
collection of like tiny bubbles and then
they break off into tumbles and you just
end up with so I always thinking about
that before when you might take some
time to dry I guess but yeah pause
you're dealing with must be super super
tiny though if they're getting through
the skin right yes
mine are very very tiny and you can't
see them so the only way we can actually
see them is because we're putting sound
on them yeah I start reflecting that
sound it's really cool and because they
start oscillating they kind of make
sound so if you move things they make
sound yeah and we can hear that with
some equipment and sometimes you can see
my professor like nested a setup he's
like no I hear it he knows exactly what
he's listening for and apparently it
sounds like soft sound if you're playing
with crisps bag oh okay that kind of
sound very softly yeah yeah I have to do
some ultrasound sound waves and possibly
some DNA as well
because if there's gonna be DNA mixed in
I realize I've not what was it water DNA
bubble yeah that's it so you need
varying the boat
can I just put like a bit of DNA on this
nail and then call it quits there was a
question I was gonna ask you is you know
you said before like when you test this
with mice and you put the solution on
their skin yeah you know do this whole
process and he said you could tell that
they'd produce more antibodies like how
do you detect that they've produced the
antibodies so what you do is you take
a little bit of blood mm-hmm from the
mice and then you can actually measure
how much antibodies that are in there so
how would you measure that like is that
you mix it with a different solution or
something so easy like mix it with some
sort of like pH indicator what you do is
you've got your antibody and every
antibody has a little bit that changes
by instead of lying you've got a
constant bit mm-hmm
and this is what your immune cells
recognize so you means they'll say oh I
see a lot of these constant bits I'm
gonna eat this and we can do is you can
find something to that constant bit that
has like a fluorophore or something
shiny on it yeah I can use that to see
it so something found you're gonna
actually another antibody yeah that
itself then has a shiny thing on it so
yeah you recognize the constant bit yes
you've got antibodies against antibodies
antibodies auntie auntie auntie boy oh
you could have like the the dark
antibody yeah I think what puts a lot of
people off science often is the language
rather than VI days because obviously we
can represent the ideas relatively
easily I mean rather beautifully if I do
say so myself see the you could make a
hypospray con please make you know in
Star Trek the way that it just does that
rather than a needle yeah like that sir
what's it like I always am I to be more
like so I've told the first part of the
story of this science the science story
so we have here some sound waves as you
can see here chorus oh oh yeah
ultrasound waves so it obviously looks
like ultrasound and then here we have
of the collection of stuff what needs to
go into the skin so we've got the DNA
which is going to be carried along with
the bubbles these are all bubbles and
yeah the ultrasound oscillates the
bubbles and makes them push through the
skin and they bring the DNA with them
and then yeah we get into the skin so
this really ugly thumbnail is skin and
the pores are little pink dots and they
each have hang on let's just go over
this side because it's over there bring
it back a bit there we go so this is a
really ugly skin thumbnail and it has
little pink paws each which has a little
black hair growing out of it and the
pores are what the bubbles on this hand
are gonna expand and contract and open
out the pores so that the DNA and stuff
can get through the skin when it gets
through the skin it's because we're
fighting flu and this is a little flu
box with a flu flag on it but really the
DNA just carries the flu flag but in had
not the Box bit yet the flu virus which
means there's no actual virus so it's
got into the skin by this like method of
DNA transport with the Bulls so then
it'll get taken to a cell and the cell a
look at the little flag DNA and we'll we
produce the proteins that will then get
carried off through the blood this is
the blood vessels heal it was lots of
veins to the lymph nodes where there
will be immune cells which will then be
like oh what's all these flight proteins
got to get rid of these and then it'll
know how to deal with it if we ever got
the flu with that flag and so we'll be
able to get rid of them I think it's
like fairly scientifically accurate it's
not to scale the bubbles are a fair
amount bigger than the DNA will be but I
think the three parts that are there are
definitely there I would definitely give
it like four out of five okay and then
it's out of five for like how pretty it
looks like look ability like how many
time
today oh I'm absolutely in love with
these boxes give that 5 out 5 they're
absolutely stunning just look I think
we've got all the things but there are
few like bits and bobs that yes so I
think we went sometimes a bit
figuratively with like the flag sorry
yes I just like the word feels like I
think I would give this about three out
of five for scientific accuracy but I
think I cleared that the only reason I
like to see flag is because I think it
reminds me of like like this half I
really like I like veins at actually
really loving this one yeah this one's
really good thank you I'm gonna give it
like three out of five four and a half
that like the 3des really successful and
I can do a six out of ten that's a solid
- yeah cuz it was it was not all nice
but as judges picks so let us know in
the comments if you were a particularly
attached to the flu flag immune so that
I do all the disgusting the gross skin
but I really honestly think that because
those bubbles are amazing so we hope
that you enjoyed this week's episode of
nailing science I'll link down below -
Johanna social media profiles if you'd
like to follow her sort of research
journey through a thesis further but
until next time we will see you all
later where does this game come home
again is that animal that's mouse mouse
skin okay
[Music]
[Laughter]
the universe
you